wiki/network-mon.md, before:

## Monitoring

- [Watchcat - network watchdog utility](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-user/advanced/watchcat)
- [Bandwidth Monitoring with bwmon](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-user/services/network_monitoring/bwmon)
- [Netify for OpenWrt](https://www.netify.ai/products/netify-informatics/get-netify/openwrt)
- [benisai/Openwrt-Monitoring](https://github.com/benisai/Openwrt-Monitoring):
  Openwrt Monitoring via Grafana
- [iperf3: add uci server handling](https://github.com/openwrt/packages/pull/16282)
- [OpenWRT - Display bandwidth of individual devices (monitor)](https://www.libe.net/en-router-monitor)
- [iptraf-ng/iptraf-ng](https://github.com/iptraf-ng/iptraf-ng): IPTraf-ng is a
  console-based network monitoring program for Linux that displays information
  about IP traffic.
- [bwm-ng (Bandwidth Monitor NG)](https://www.gropp.org/?id=projects&sub=bwm-ng):
  andwidth Monitor NG is a small and simple console-based live network and disk
  io bandwidth monitor for Linux, BSD, Solaris, Mac OS X and others.
- [collectd](https://www.collectd.org/): The system statistics collection daemon


- [](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/metrics/metrics-prometheus/prometheus-config-examples/openwrt-openwrt-packages/)

Commit message:

chore: Add pacakges related to `snmp`

wiki/network-mon.md, after:

## Monitoring

- [Watchcat - network watchdog utility](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-user/advanced/watchcat)
- [Bandwidth Monitoring with bwmon](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-user/services/network_monitoring/bwmon)
- [Netify for OpenWrt](https://www.netify.ai/products/netify-informatics/get-netify/openwrt)
- [benisai/Openwrt-Monitoring](https://github.com/benisai/Openwrt-Monitoring):
  Openwrt Monitoring via Grafana
- [iperf3: add uci server handling](https://github.com/openwrt/packages/pull/16282)
- [OpenWRT - Display bandwidth of individual devices (monitor)](https://www.libe.net/en-router-monitor)
- [iptraf-ng/iptraf-ng](https://github.com/iptraf-ng/iptraf-ng): IPTraf-ng is a
  console-based network monitoring program for Linux that displays information
  about IP traffic.
- [bwm-ng (Bandwidth Monitor NG)](https://www.gropp.org/?id=projects&sub=bwm-ng):
  andwidth Monitor NG is a small and simple console-based live network and disk
  io bandwidth monitor for Linux, BSD, Solaris, Mac OS X and others.
- [collectd](https://www.collectd.org/): The system statistics collection daemon
- [Monitor OpenWrt Packages with Prometheus and Grafana Cloud](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/metrics/metrics-prometheus/prometheus-config-examples/openwrt-openwrt-packages/)

Simple Network Monitoring Protocol (SNMP) is widely used in network management
for network monitoring.

- [System Monitoring Tools](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora/latest/system-administrators-guide/monitoring-and-automation/System_Monitoring_Tools/)
- [prometheus/snmp_exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/snmp_exporter): SNMP
  Exporter for Prometheus
- [An advanced guide to network monitoring with Grafana and Prometheus](https://grafana.com/blog/2022/02/01/an-advanced-guide-to-network-monitoring-with-grafana-and-prometheus/)
